---
layout: post
title: Getting Personal
---

Kay.  Straight-up, I don't know what I'm talking about.  Let's just get that out of the way real quick.  I'm a newly-married college kid who's holding down his first real job while trying to manage a computer science degree.

There are a number of thoughts I've been having lately.  I'm having these thoughts because of two computer theory classes I'm taking currently.  I just can't seem to understand finite state machines, context-free grammars, and/or Turing machines.  Honestly, I feel pretty stupid because I can't understand the stuff that's being taught.  It feels like at least a number of people in my classes understand what's going on.  I have a couple friends that are similarly struggling (to varying degrees) which simply serves to complicate my already-muddled thoughts.

I don't know what I need to do or even what I should be thinking which is why I'm writing.  I'm tempted to publish my thoughts over the coming week(s), but that's not my main goal in typing this file.  I really just want to get my thoughts on paper so that I can get them out of my head.

You know that feeling you get when your head's too full and it just can't sift through things?  I certainly hope I'm not the only one who experiences that on a somewhat frequent basis.

If I had to break things down to their root level, my issue currently is that I don't know what I want to do with school.  Honestly, I don't know why I want to "school."  Really, I don't, but I *do* want to be able to provide for my wife and any future family that may come along.  College, it seems, can help in a way.

An issue with that thought is that there's no real way to know if college will help.  All we (meaning the United States as a whole) have to go off of is statistics of earnings and graduates and how those mingle from past years.  While these are pretty solid facts, I'm hesistant to take them as truths pertaining to coming years.  One of the first things my stats professor taught us was that linear extrapolation is a bad idea (not insinuating that that's what statisticians are doing when analyzing earning data for college grads, but predicting the future seems like quite the tricky science).

Let me be clear for a moment.  My parents are paying for my education.  I don't have to get a student loan or put myself out in order to be at a university.  To a lot of people, that seems to make the decision.  "Get a degree in something that'll get you a lot of money!" some say.  "Study something you love!" others proclaim.  Regardless, it seems that the generic view of my situation is that my thoughts are somewhat irrelevant since I'm not financially responsible.

Running with the assumption that college is a good thing and that I should go through with it and earn a degree, the question then arises of which degree I should "run" with.  I like computers.  I know that for a fact.  I've been fascinated by them for as long as I can remember.  For elaboration, when I say I "like" computers, I don't mean that I want to study microchips or how electrons move or why hard drives work.  I enjoy knowing little facts about those topics, but I certainly don't want to spend the rest of my life engineering hardware or figuring out how to make the internet faster on a physics level.  I enjoy *software*.  One of my first loves as a child was playing with LEGO bricks.  I adored (and still do) the infinite possibilities offered by those tiny, interlocking pieces of plastic.  One day, a single brick can be part of an airplane.  Another day could allocate that block to a car or a pully or a robot.  I see programming in a similar light.  Programming, to me, is like building LEGOs without the limitation of which pieces are in my bin.  Programming doesn't necessarily need resources.  If I need another variable for a program, I don't need to go out and buy it or build it or anything, I just *make* it.  It's just there.  Instantly.  I can then use that variable to represent annual income, plane flights available, phone numbers, or health for a video game character.  You name it!

That's beautiful to me.

What I *don't* like is theory.  As my mother can attest, I've never enjoyed doing things for the sake of doing them.  If I don't see a point (meaning something useful that I or the world can gain from my actions), I don't want to do it.  As I mentioned before, I'm currently enrolled in two computational theory classes.  They're kicking my butt.  Not only are they difficult, but they're boring and theoretical.  I don't see the point which makes me motivating myself to do the work needed that much more difficult.  I fully realize this one's on me, but it's a problem nonetheless.  I can't just flip a switch in my brain and magically be a perfect student.  I don't think humans work like that.

I'm the kind of person who needs to talk things out.  I love getting other people's opinions.  I've currently got a few friends and acquantainces offering their thoughts on my situation.  There's a couple (namely my parents and a female coworker) pushing for me to stay in computer science and finish even if I don't like it.  This is a valid thought.  My goal in writing this is certainly not to convince myself that they're wrong.  My dad really struggled with parts of medical school.  He knows the pain of having to push through theory and difficult subjects in the name of finishing.  We've spoken rather candidly about this in the past (yes, that alludes to the fact that this debate has been going on in my head for a couple of years now).  I've yet to really drill down to my coworker's reasons for being a computer science major, but I imagine they're similar.

As for the other people, they're all information technology majors.  From what I can tell, information technology is a major similar to computer science but significantly simpler.  This potentially comes with a salary trade-off which is a downside that would disuade a number of people.

The thing that's got my mind churning right now is that I don't just want money out of life.  I'd also like to enjoy it and have time to spend with those I love doing what I love.  If computer science is going to land me in a position similar to my father's (working all day every day on hard things that stress and wear him out to the point where he often can't help at home), then I don't want any part of it.  If information technology (IT) lands me in a better spot, that definitely sounds better.